Proposal Title: Avoiding Burnout with Community Leadership Handoffs

Description(brief overview for marketing purposes, max. length 400
characters -- about 65 words): 

As active participants in FOSS communities, we often see the disastrous
effects that a project leader's burnout can have on their group. In this talk,
Elijah Caine and Emily Dunham will share what they learned from the successful
leadership handoff of one of the largest active Linux Users Groups in Oregon.

Topic: People

Session Type: 40-minute

Abstract: (Longer, more detailed description (3-6 paragraph, bullet points
welcome) of your presentation to help the program committee understand what
you will cover. Please keep in mind that if your proposal is chosen, this
abstract will also appear on the website to help conference attendees decide
if it's right for them.)

As active participants in FOSS communities, we often see the disastrous
effects that a project leader's burnout can have on their group. In this talk,
Elijah Caine and Emily Dunham will share what they learned from the successful
leadership handoff of one of the largest active Linux Users Groups in Oregon.
                                                                        
Topics will include how to avoid the pitfalls which the group encountered in
previous transitions, the unique challenges faced by all-volunteer groups of
busy people, how we fostered a group culture that facilitates successful
transitions. Throught the talk, we'll emphasize how you can apply the basic
leadership skills which tie it all together.

This talk represents a truly unique opportunity to get an in-depth view of a
group's leadership handoff from both sides -- you'll hear from the former
president what she was trying to do, and from her successor about what did and
didn't actually work. Although it uses the specific example of the OSU LUG's
leadership transition, this talk will focus on the reasons that various
techniques did and didn't work and how other groups can apply these lessons
themselves.


Tags: Geek Life/Lifestyle, Tools & Techniques, Other ("Community Leadership")

Audience level: Non-technical

Prerequisite Knowledge: 

Interest in leadership and open source communities

Conceptual vs. How-to: Conceptual



