
Talk Information
Talk Title

Rust Gets It Right
How long is your presentation (in minutes; 10-40 is average)?

I can make it fit any 30-50 minute slot
Talk Abstract

The web site says that Rust is a systems programming language that runs
blazingly fast, prevents nearly all segfaults, and guarantees thread safety.
Behind the scenes, Rust is also a community that welcomes new contributors,
consistently enforces its code of conduct, and maintains a high-quality
codebase.

I've recently joined the Rust community, and can provide a technical
perspective on how their automatic systems encourage good code and good
behavior. As someone who doesn't look like the average tech person, I've also
noticed the pitfalls of many communities' problematic attempts encourage
diversity, and the ways that Rust avoids them.
Who's your ideal audience?

People interested in the Rust language or curious about what any open source
project can do to cultivate a healthy community.
Why are you excited to talk about this at Open Source & Feelings?

Many of the techniques that Rust uses to cultivate a welcoming environment are
automated with open source tools, and I suspect that they'll be particularly
useful to the audience at OSFeels.
Balancing Information
Tell us about your involvement with your communities.

I'm a maintainer on several small open source projects (2-20 users). I choose
re-using code over re-inventing it whenever possible, and contribute
documentation fixes to almost every project whose docs I read for any reason.
One of my hobbies is encouraging projects that're missing licensing
information to publish it, and I've built a small tool that scans a given user
or organization's GitHub repos and points out those which are missing
licensing information. Oh yeah, and I founded a DevOps training program at my
university, ran it for a year, and mentored the next cohort of leaders during
my final year there.
Previous Speaking Experience

I've given technical, teaching, and psychology talks at a variety of
conferences including OSCON, OpenWest, SeaGL, LinuxFest Northwest, and some
local meetups and barcamps.
Have you presented on this topic at other events? If so, where and when?

I've given a talk relating psychology to open source at SCALE and LinuxFest
Northwest, but this is the first CFP to which this talk is relevant since I've
joined the Rust community
Tell us about your experience with open source.

I got started using Linux in 2008, and started learning about open source
culture and giving back when I joined a Linux Users Group in 2010. Since then
I've served as president of that LUG for 2 years, founded a DevOps training
program, spoken at a lot of different conferences, and contributed to a wide
variety of projects. My job title would uniquely identify me, but let's just
say that I'm employed in a role where I get a lot of experience with the Rust
community.
Speaker Accomodations
Will travel and lodging make attending Open Source & Feelings financially
difficult?

no

