GitHub Universe 2016

Servo's Infrastructure: Building Tomorrow's Browser Engine

Abstract:

The Servo browser engine is a Mozilla initiative to test novel approaches to
rendering the web and build components to improve Firefox. Servo's zealously
open community contribution model is a glimpse into the future of how
corporate projects can work symbiotically with volunteers.

However, the mix of Servo's uncompromisingly open workflow and Mozilla's
strict security requirements for Firefox components creates infrastructure
challenges. This talk will follow Servo's quest to get the best of both
worlds, highlighting the tools and techniques that other projects can use on
similar challenges.

Details for committee:

As Mozilla Research's only  DevOps engineer, I've had a front-row seat to the
process of moving Servo components into Firefox, as well as personally
building integration tooling for the projects.

There are two major components to this talk, corresponding to the two general
lessons that I feel will be of greatest value to an audience who values open
source but might struggle to integrate it with their employers' or companies'
needs:

First, we'll examine the tooling which allows a small team of under a dozen
full-time Mozilla engineers to  effectively manage and direct a community of
over 500 volunteers, while still getting their own work done. These open
source tools, and the "automate everything that you can" ethos behind their
development, are valuable to any audience members who struggles to balance the
demands of open source community management with finding the time to work on
their code.

Second, I'll tell the story of the recent challenges we've encountered in
streamlining the workflow for landing Servo code in Firefox itself. It's a
gruesome tale of multiple testing platforms, technical debt, and chimera
monsters made of robots piled upon robots, which serves to both caution
against allowing bad ideas to fester in a system and lend hope that even the
worst tire fires can be extinguished eventually.


Pitch:

Backend engineers love learning about Servo because it's one of the flagship
applications of the Rust programming language, which blends safety,
concurrency, and speed into a unique and interesting tool. Web developers love
getting acquainted with Servo because it's on the bleeding edge of rendering
the web, and the welcoming community offers them a chance to examine and
contribute to what happens under the hood when a user visits their pages. And
business leaders who value open contribution but aren't sure how it fits with
their products can learn a lot from the relationship between the Mozilla
corporation and Servo's community.

Presented by the only full-time infrastructure engineer on the Servo project,
this talk offers a unique perspective into a challenge which characterizes the
growing pains of integrating a business's interests with those of a community.
I'll focus on the technical and community challenges that we've overcome on
this journey, since the tools that have worked for us are fully open source
and can help other projects in the future.
