
Talk Information
How long is your presentation (in minutes; 10-40 is average)?

I can make it fit any 30-50 minute slot
Talk Abstract

"That service doesn't like being restarted". "You have to rotate the logs to
keep it happy". "That packet confused the application".

Developement and operations teams personify computers every day, but rarely
stop to think about the impact of these habits. This talk will examine how
personification fits into the tech industry's culture and workflows, and
techniques for using these habits to your advantage.
Who's your ideal audience?

People with some tech industry background will learn about personification,
whereas people whose experience is solely academic or hobby-based will learn
things about what it's like in the tech industry.
Why are you excited to talk about this at Open Source & Feelings?

I'm excited to share these ideas with and get feedback on them from a room
full of people who enjoy examining the open source world at a more meta level,
rather than focusing primarily on the technical implementation specifics like
many of the people I ordinarily work with.
Talk Title

Server Happiness: DevOps through personification
Balancing Information
Previous Speaking Experience

I've given technical, teaching, and psychology talks at a variety of
conferences including OSCON, OpenWest, SeaGL, LinuxFest Northwest, and some
local meetups and barcamps.
Have you presented on this topic at other events? If so, where and when?

Not this particular topic, because it hasn't fit into a conference that I've
been available for yet.
Tell us about your experience with open source.

I got started using Linux in 2008, and started learning about open source
culture and giving back when I joined a Linux Users Group in 2010. Since then
I've served as president of that LUG for 2 years, founded a DevOps training
program, spoken at a lot of different conferences, and contributed to a wide
variety of projects.
Tell us about your involvement with your communities.

I'm a maintainer on several small open source projects (2-20 users). I choose
re-using code over re-inventing it whenever possible, and contribute
documentation fixes to almost every project whose docs I read for any reason.
One of my hobbies is encouraging projects that're missing licensing
information to publish it, and I've built a small tool that scans a given user
or organization's GitHub repos and points out those which are missing
licensing information. Oh yeah, and I founded a DevOps training program at my
university, ran it for a year, and mentored the next cohort of leaders during
my final year there.
Speaker Accomodations
Will travel and lodging make attending Open Source & Feelings financially
difficult?

no
