
Talk Information
Talk Title

You Should Speak
How long is your presentation (in minutes; 10-40 is average)?

45-60 minutes
Talk Abstract

Have you ever thought about speaking at a conference, then come up with some
excuse like "I don't know enough", "I'm scared of public speaking", or "I
don't know where to apply"? Come to this talk to learn how to combine the open
source tools and technolgies which solve all of those problems and more!

This talk will share solutions, often in the form of open-source tools, to
many of the problems which aspiring speakers encounter, including:

Overcoming fear of public speaking
Choosing a topic to talk about
Finding the right conference for your topic
Marketing a talk proposal with a convincing abstract
Finding open-source presentation software that fits your needs
Designing powerful slides

These tricks will be helpful for experienced presenters looking to learn new
skills, as well as novice speakers who need some help getting started.
Who's your ideal audience?

Anyone who's considered the idea of doing some public speaking, regardless of
whether or not they followed through.
Why are you excited to talk about this at Open Source & Feelings?

This is a talk I prepared for OSBridge but I was unable to attend this year.
It deals directly with my own experiences overcoming impostor syndrome in the
open source community, and I think that sharing what I've learned along the
way will be helpful to other people in similar situaitons to my own.
Balancing Information
Previous Speaking Experience

I've given technical, teaching, and psychology talks at a variety of
conferences including OSCON, OpenWest, SeaGL, LinuxFest Northwest, and some
local meetups and barcamps.
Have you presented on this topic at other events? If so, where and when?

I got this talk accepted into OSBridge this year, but was unable to attend
because of a scheduling conflict with travel for the new job I accepted after
getting into OSBridge. So the talk is basically ready, but OSFeels would be
its first time at a conference.
Tell us about your experience with open source.

I got started using Linux in 2008, and started learning about open source
culture and giving back when I joined a Linux Users Group in 2010. Since then
I've served as president of that LUG for 2 years, founded a DevOps training
program, spoken at a lot of different conferences, and contributed to a wide
variety of projects.
Tell us about your involvement with your communities.

I'm a maintainer on several small open source projects (2-20 users). I choose
re-using code over re-inventing it whenever possible, and contribute
documentation fixes to almost every project whose docs I read for any reason.
One of my hobbies is encouraging projects that're missing licensing
information to publish it, and I've built a small tool that scans a given user
or organization's GitHub repos and points out those which are missing
licensing information. Oh yeah, and I founded a DevOps training program at my
university, ran it for a year, and mentored the next cohort of leaders during
my final year there.
Speaker Accomodations
Will travel and lodging make attending Open Source & Feelings financially
difficult?

no

