Okay, this is fun. Ok, I can hear me, my mic's working. That's awesome. 

I'm edunham on most of the media that matter, qedunham on some of the ones
that don't, these talks are available at that URL, this same slide will be the
last one in the presentation too. 

So, before we get going, by a quick show of hands, who here identifies as a
Real Systems Administrator? A few of you, cool. The rest of you, look around,
see whose hands are up, you might want to ask them some questions later. Now,
who here isn't really a Real sysadmin, but just has to wear the hat sometimes? 

Ok, that's cool. It probably seems pretty easy. You don't really have to worry
about too many backups, about too much disaster recovery, because all of your
stuff is being done in The Cloud. 

Now, The Cloud is this big buzzword that seems to mean a technological
panacea. Put it in the cloud, that'll fix the problem! But what does Cloud
really mean?

So, <audience laughter>, There's a bunch of different kinds of clouds out
there. We've got cirrus clouds, altocumulus, cumulonimbus, there's a wide
variety for every use case. 

No, okay, actually, there's the Public Cloud, where you basically rent some
subset of somebody else's server functionality to do your computations. If
you'd rather not do it on someone else's servers, you could use your own. 

You could have a Private Cloud, which is where you tell your servers to
virtualize other servers. You like servers! You put servers in your servers,
and then when the servers break, the other servers will fix them! Sounds
awesome, on paper. 

But, it isn't turtles all the way down. Your computations are actually getting
done on transistors. Transistors live in chips. Chips live in servers. And
servers... live... in datacenters! 

So, the internet as we know it is comprised of a bunch of computations that
are done in these big old buildings, those need power, they need air
conditioning, otherwise the servers will literally melt and/or catch fire, and
most importantly, they need to be tied together by this network of fiber optic
cables. 

The cables are owned by a variety of different interests and the functionality
of the internet depends on cooperation between those interests, which is only
a little less scary than ship anchors and bulldozers when you're talking about
a bunch of wires. 

But, it beats the alternative. You can get decent bandwidth out of a box of
hard drives in the mail or an SD card taped to a pigeon, but you know, the
latency just cannot compete with throwing your packets around at the speed of
light. 

So, now that we know what the cloud is, let's talk about where it is. I'd like
you to think to yourselves whether you have one server, in one datacenter, in
any of these cloud hosting providers. I'm not going to ask you to raise your
hands, that'd be embarrassing. 

Here, in AWS or equivalently Heroku, US West 1 and 2 are popular regions to
deploy your servers into for developers in North America. They are also in an
area that geologists identify as overdue for a massive, catastrophic
earthquake. 

If you're using Windows Azure, look at that line that the datacenters make
around the Pacific Rim. It's an area poetically described as the Ring of Fire,
based on the volcanoes and earthquakes that it tends to get. 

Ok, the Pacific Ocean is scary. Let's not put our servers there. Maybe we
should put them in Europe. If you're doing your computation in the EU, you
*may*, I am not a lawyer, you *may* be legally exposing yourself to a variety
of data retention laws. 

Let's just copy all the data! Put it in all the different datacenters! Umm,
there's this problem where you also have to be able to delete an individual
user, everything about them, because of their Right To Be Forgotten. 

Maybe putting our servers overseas isn't the best idea. Let's come right back
here into the good old US, where the unknowns of national spying are basically
known. 

Let's put them in someplace like Linode's Atlanta or Dallas datacenters, or
Rackspace's Virginia, Dallas, or Chicago datacenters! These actually map out
the area known as Tornado Alley, because of how often it gets massive storms
that take out the power for awhile. 

It may not be that bad. Datacenters have backup generators, they have
redundant networking, they have enough fuel to last them awhile. 

But at the end of the day, your computations are being done in a building, on
the ground. I hope after this quick tour around the world, your judgement
about whether to tolerate a single point of failure in your infrastructure
might be a little less.... clouded. 
